cacti and desert beatles can
live in arid environments
because they've adapted to suck
water out of the air
so can we do that - if we're in
a drought
hey guys Amy with you on dnews
today we know the Earth's
climate is warming from mix of
natural changes including solar
activity and man-made causes
namely greenhouse gases and
aerosols
this is taking a toll on global
weather there is more water
vapor in the atmosphere so
rainfall is increasing in
tropical areas but drier areas
are experiencing some of the
worst droughts in history
the thing is even in deserts
there's humidity in the air so
to help tackle the world's drug
problems a team of scientists
from Harvard with support from
the Department of Energy have
looked to plants and insects
that are able to pull water out
of the air to survive in the
desert this biologically
inspired technology described in
the journal Nature involves
collecting water from air by
condensing water vapor on
surfaces inspired by Beatles
cacti and other desert-dwelling
organisms they looked at the
bumpy surfaces of beetles shells
and found that if the geometry
is right
water droplets grow faster on
the tops of convex bumps that on
a raised flat surface of the
same height
they looked at the asymmetric
structure of cactus spines and
found that they had the best
topography to guide the
condensation off the bumps to be
collected and a slippery surface
of carnivorous pitcher plants
inspired the researchers to
guide those formed water
droplets down smooth nonstick
surface the team combines these
elements with material that
repels liquid called slippery
liquid infused porous surface
technology or slips the three
nature-inspired inventions
combined with the slips
technology make an excellent
collector to gather water from
the air when set up any
atmospheric moisture pulls on
the bumps and flows as water
droplets down the asymmetrically
pitted water repellent surface
but couldn't make a difference
I asked the papers lead author
Kenneth park he roughly
calculates that the volume of
air the size of a house in the
desert holds about 16 liters of
water
that's not a lot for people in
developed countries but in
desert regions it could be
life-changing access to drinking
and cooking water and of course
in humid areas that number rises
even more
basically as long as surface
temperature gets below the dew
point there will be condensation
to harness from the air
the challenge now facing the
team is controlling the size of
the water droplets and the
direction in which they flow but
with the details worked out this
could be a step towards
developing a passive system
capable of collecting and
transporting atmospheric water
to a reservoir
but remember well this
technology is great it's a proof
of concept we still need to
conserve resources especially
those of us living in areas
affected by drought
like California which is
experiencing the worst drought
in more than a century so it's
scientists developing these
kinds of technologies just how
serious is the global drug that
we're looking to thin air as a
source for water
julie has got the information on
this current crisis in the
episode right here in 2012
sixty-four percent of the u.s.
was listed as moderately to
extremely dry all of this
drought and devastation recalls
the dust bowl of the nineteen
thirties when in 1934
sixty-eight percent of the
country was extremely dry
some people are creeped out
drinking recycled water would
you feel we're drinking water
pulled from the air
let us know in the comments and
don't forget to subscribe so you
never miss an episode of d names